finally break up with that toxic person
in my life and then you're not doing it
honey you cannot trust in yourself
because you keep breaking your own
promises you keep breaking your own word
how can you trust a person that is
simply breaking their word over and over
again you can't hi guys welcome back to
my channel my name is Michaela and today
we are going to talk about
confidence after this video you will
know what confidence actually is and how
insecurity is keeping you dropped in
that life that reality you are and how
confidence plays a role in manifesting
your dream life let's get into this
first of all I want to explain to you
what is confidence if you look up the
word confidence in Wikipedia it says
confidence is the feeling of belief or
trust that a person or thing is reliable
self-confidence is trust in oneself
self-confidence involves a positive
belief that one can generally accomplish
what one wishes to do in future
self-confidence is not the same as
self-esteem which is an evaluation of
one's worth so confidence is that
feeling or belief that you are reliable
it's trust in yourself that you can do
it that you can achieve it whatever it
is now this sounds pretty simple right
it's like okay yeah I trust myself but
in today's world I feel like everyone
wants to be confident but no one
actually is confident for some reason
and you can see this as a well-known
fashion brand let's say if you have to
decide you are going to buy in Sara or
you are going to buy something in an
online store that has no reviews is
pretty new on the market and no one
really talks about it then you will
prefer to go to Sarah because you trust
in Sarah because Sarah is reliable right
and that's the same with yourself if you
trust in yourself enough that you know
whatever you're doing is right is the
correct thing and you're reliable you do
the right thing then you have self trust
then you're going to do whatever you
feel like doing from your confidence so
of course everyone wants to be reliable
everyone wants to be confident everyone
wants to walk into a room and be
confident but why does it seem so rare
why do most people live in fear live
with insecurities and self-doubt instead
of confidence see for for me insecurity
is like an infection it's a silent
infection right it makes your body stiff
it makes you feel
uncomfortable it maybe makes even your
brain stop proper working and thinking
it makes you completely disconnect with
yourself and you can see it in your
posture you can hear it in your voice
you can feel it in all over your body
even your brain gets infected with
negative selft talk with with hesitation
and second guessing again it spreads
over your whole body it makes you really
feel gross in a way but insecurities are
not
only an infection they are also some
kind of signpost or teacher for you
because insecurities they always show
you exactly what standing in your way if
you feel insecure when you start talking
in front of a camera
then that's standing in your way to
reach what you want to reach if you feel
insecure about how you look and that's
why you're not going out that's why
you're not talking to people that's why
you do not find the love of your life
then that's standing in your way
obviously it's an obstacle right and
once you see insecurities that way as an
infection but also as a teacher you can
St study it you can study first of all
how does that infection for me feel for
me personally when I feel insecure I
feel stiff my Palms start to be a bit
sweaty I feel cold even though my palms
are sweaty and in some way my brain
literally stops to function properly of
course my body works I'm still alive but
my thoughts my talking is not as fluent
as it usually is so study first of all
that infection you can only heal
something if you know what it is and how
to treat it right if you have a flu you
know exactly you have a flu because you
feel oh these are the symptoms of a flu
I'm having a cuff I'm having sore fruit
you feel it you know that's a flu okay
I'm going to take now Panadol you know
what to do so if you know the symptoms
of your
insecurity then minimum you know okay
right now I'm starting to feel insecure
and then you observe You observe what's
happening within your body You observe
how your thoughts are going how you
suddenly start to talk negatively to
yourself how you suddenly second guess
yourself for the smallest things you do
maybe suddenly you feel really bloated
observe it and take note of it take note
of it mentally or on paper and be aware
okay these are my symptoms and then you
can ask yourself you can ask your
teacher which is that infection what is
it holding you back from because usually
insecurities they're holding you back
from something in order to protect you
but in that moment you don't need to be
protected it's a protection because it
wants to protect you to not get into
situations that are unknown that are
uncomfortable which is great but
sometimes most of the time we do not
need that so you ask your teacher what
do you want to teach me right
now and then instead of running from
them you have studied them because every
time you're insecure you are used to run
you are used to get out of that
uncomfortable situation but you can stop
to run and finally face those challenges
finally face those things that
insecurities are holding you back and if
you have ever wondered yeah but it's so
unfair because there are some people
naturally secure and me I'm just so
insecure it's so difficult and not
everyone knows how it feels what if I
tell you that the most secure people the
most confident people are actually also
insecure the only difference is that
they really know how to deal with them
they have studied their insecurities
from A to Z they know their insecurities
better than anything else that's why
they Master them and that's why those
insecurities are not taking control over
them instead they're actually giving
them clear signs what they should do and
overcome and what not that's why also
confident people are more prone to be
successful of course because what do
successful people do they only do so
much different than you they are not
different people there are people who
have less knowledge who have less skills
who are less beautiful who are less
charismatic than you yet they have
achieved a lot more than you and that's
all based on confidence at the end they
were just confident enough to see what's
holding them back and do it anyways
another thing that helped me was the so
what method if you think about your
biggest insecurities about your biggest
fears what if it happens think about it
what if you are not good enough what if
you are not good enough to talk on a
stage what if you just do not look good
enough to be a model what if ask
yourself what if you do not get dead man
that you're so obsessed with what if you
do not go to university what if you do
not take that job what if you fail that
exam think about it at the end of the
day nothing happens you're still alive
everything is still intact maybe you
feel miserable but that's it whatever is
arising whatever is happening is simply
an emotion you simply wake up next day
you keep growing you keep living you
keep doing you actually in the way of
Simply doing it and failing or accepting
and seeing oh yeah I didn't make it I
failed I'm not beautiful enough I am not
a good speaker I'm not a good writer I
am not good at this I'm not good enough
I cannot have it with realizing this you
actually learn so much in that process
because you understand and you accept at
which point you are at this moment and
from there on you can work from there on
minimum you know where you stand and you
can work through you can get better at
singing you can get better at writing
you can get better at talking you
can work on your beauty you can work on
your body you can do something once you
see where you actually at and you can
always improve there is no way you say
oh yeah okay I cannot sing so I'm just
not made for singing I'm giving up
no if you realize oh I'm not as
beautiful oh this person actually
doesn't want me so what you are aive
which is already so much to be grateful
and thankful for and minimum you know
now okay this person doesn't want me I
can look for someone else someone better
you have to understand that most of our
insecurities are simply based on
assumptions of what is going to happen
or how we will feel or Worse some of our
insecurities are coming from a place of
memories of what we have been through
and our brain is so great actually it
just wants us to be safe so if our brain
has an assumption or has a memory of a
bad feeling it wants us to be safe it
tries its best to keep us in our comfort
zone which is actually amazing but as I
said it's not always necessary the past
doesn't have to repeat and our
assumptions are simply assumptions and
anyways safety is not where confidence
grows confidence grows outside your
comfort zone it comes from proving
yourself over and over again if you
think about what we said in the first
part of the video what confidence
actually is it's trust in order to have
that trust in yourself you have to prove
yourself you have to give yourself that
review that Sara has you have to give
yourself a lot of reviews that you know
oh yeah I can trust myself even if bad
feelings or difficult emotions arise I
can deal with them and when you trust in
yourself so much you can face whatever
is coming at you and you know you have
always yourself of course of course
everyone wants to be confident of course
everyone wants to trust in itself and
know whatever comes I can face it myself
I do not have to wait for someone to
save me I do not have to wait for anyone
I can face it myself by my own and I do
not need validation from outside because
I have trust in myself so much I don't
need it from somewhere else I don't need
to ask someone else I don't need to have
the approval from someone else that's
another big big Point confident people
they do
everything trusting themselves without
waiting for approval from everyone
around them and of course because it's
very uncomfortable and it actually is
something you have to face your inner
world to grow confidence that's why some
people simply try to gain confidence
through external validation but this
confidence is not lasting every time you
get this validation it's not going to be
enough you will need more and more and
more someone will need to fill your cup
someone will need to fill your
confidence and that's simply impossible
you can go only so long with that
because if you rely on external
validation you can never be truly
confident why because your confidence
your selfworth then is dependent on
others and you are not in power you are
not in charge of others you are only in
power of yourself you are only in
control of yourself you cannot force
others to do or say something so I think
it's clear why everyone wants to be
confident now how can you be truly
confident
first of all you need to prove yourself
over and over again that you can trust
in yourself which means when you give
yourself promises you need to hold those
promises if you keep telling yourself
I'm going to eat healthy and you're not
doing it how can you ever trust yourself
in something bigger if you keep telling
yourself I'm going to do my skincare
routine and you do it once and then you
give up how can you ever trust yourself
if you keep saying I'm going to the gym
now every day I'm going to stop sugar
I'm going to finally break up with that
toxic person in my life and then you're
not doing it honey you cannot trust in
yourself because you keep breaking your
own promises you keep breaking your own
word how can you trust a person that is
simply breaking their word over and over
again you can't you can't trust yourself
and then you can't be confident when you
keep breaking your own word the other
thing is keep working on your internal
certainty you need to be Confidence from
inside we already talked about this use
the so what method use the observing
method know and study your insecurities
and your fears so well that you know
exact exactly what to do and how to
overcome them another thing is every
time you start to think oh I'm not good
enough I can't do that I can't have that
I'm not capable of making it I want you
to rephrase that rephrase it and say
instead things like I am worthy as I am
there are more than enough opportunities
on this world abundance is everywhere I
can figure figure it out I am able to do
whatever is necessary whatever it is try
to rephrase it and really see the
opportunity in those situations see that
something is holding you back for a
reason the conclusion is first of all
face your fears instead of avoiding them
second of all detach from external
validation for good third ask yourself
that you can handle everything and
anything that comes your way and the
fourth and last thing see mistakes as
part of growth and not proof of failure
anyways guys I hope this could help some
of you I love you so so much and I
believe in you you are going to be
confident you just have to put some
little steps and work into it and you
will be your best and most com confident
version of yourself I love you so so
much bye-bye